# Gilti's Troop Guide

## 2025-05-15

I think we need to talk a bit about units to use. I'm not godfather of
everything so if you think differently, go for it but I definitely do hear/see
some things that are just wrong.

Generally speaking, most of you will run:

- one tank (Sauron, F&S, Undying, Gil-galad, Falgin, etc.)
- two damage dealers (aka DDs)
- one support (GTW, GTG, Undying, etc.)

So:

### Units on TANK

- A. _Swan Knights_, makes most sense if your tank is build **FAST** (1/2
agility perk, etc., as initiative of commander scales with unit initiative).

- B. _Mountain Trolls_ if your tank is **SLOW** as even if you're using
agility, with trolls you won't beat any other tank using Swans no matter what.

- C. _Guardians_, cheapest version. Good especially early game if you can't
afford the expensive ones.

### Units on DD

- A. If using _Swan Knights_ on tank, then you have the option to use a cavalry
formation on all four commanders and get the medium unit buff:
  - _Marauder_ are used alot these days as they give quite good initiative
  stats and are relatively cheap if you use T2. I'd even say they are better
  than their T3 version. Especially on Saruman they do work well.
  - _Ram Riders_
  - _Shire Protectors_, especially Dain loves them to remove
  debuffs/anomalities which he suffers a lot from.
  - Obviously _Bow Knights_ or their T2 if you're using Gil-galad as tank.
  - There are other options possible, like _Cataphracts_, but those are the
  ones I see most.

- B. Using _Mountain Trolls_ leads more to using a mix of small/medium units:
  - _Woses Hunter_ are my personal favourite especially on Saruman, _Marauder_
  also very good.
  - _Guardians_, you never ever will do something wrong with Trolls and 3x
  guardians.
  - _Berserkers_, especially for evil commanders.
  - Any mix-in of the Swan version mixed in, other options possible, I won't
  name them all, but **NO SQUISHY** elven archer, sharpshooters something
  something units, cause they die too fast.

### Units on SUPPORT COMMANDER

Many options here, Ram Riders, Cataphracts, Bow Knights...

This is just an overview, just because I didn't list it doesn't mean it's not working.

99% of the cases -obviously unless you're using flying only army- it's not a
efficient way to use more than one T4. Yes, best units mean best results but
it's all about efficiency. We need players able to fight every day using all
their stamina. It doesn't help, if you can only fight 3 or 4 times every day
having slightly better results with T4 only but then you're out for a day.
**Please don't do that**. Use a mix of more expensive units where it's really
needed (tank) and cheaper ones where the result is not too different.

Most infantry archers are too squishy and unit damage isn't a thing unless on
very specific commanders.
 
If what you're planning to use is way different than this, maybe you should ask
if thats working to see if that makes any sense.

## 2025-07-03

Some additional notes from Conan:

Regarding being able to fight around the clock, the cheapest and not so bad
unit that will give you the most fights are Crushers. I made a calculation some
seasons ago and with a standard resource input (2m each resource daily), not
talking about having 200 10s, but only 8s and 9s, maybe even a good bunch of 6s
tiles, you'll have enough to hire almost 14 marches of Crushers, while you'll
only will hire 8 marches of Guardians. That's 6 extra battles you could have
each day.

Also, like Gilti said above, unit damage only works on specific commanders
provided you select the right abilities and gear, so a standard DD doesn't
benefit much from a T4 unit. It all depends on what you face: I've seen my
Crushers do more than 30k damage without troop attack focused gear or
abilities, and I've seen gorgeous T4 do less than 10k.

